README.md, before:

React.js and Spring Data REST - CRUD
====================================

CRUD application with security enabled: a PoC with
ReactJS in the frontend and Spring Data REST in the backend.

> ⚠️ **_NOTE:_**  Work in Progress, there is nothing useful yet.

Based in the source code here: https://github.com/spring-guides/tut-react-and-spring-data-rest

Guide: https://spring.io/guides/tutorials/react-and-spring-data-rest

The **goal** is to learn better how to use React, and complete the guide but
improving the original code with the following changes and features:

- [ ] Make it more appealing, using Bootstrap / HTML5, using React components
      from a 3ty party library, maybe [reactstrap](https://reactstrap.github.io/).
- [X] The original application makes a lot of unnecessary requests to only show
      the paginated results (2 initial requests + 1 request * number of items
      in the page), that should be narrowed to just one request.
- [X] Replace the depreacted library [rest.js](https://github.com/cujojs/rest) that
      also does not support standard promises by a modern HTTP client:
      [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios)
- [X] Add a REST browser for development purpose: HAL Browser
- [X] The entity `Employee` in the original guide is the `User` entity here,
      that was merged with the `Manager` entity
- [ ] Add better validations and errors handling
- [X] Remove Websockets used to update the data in the frontend in "real time",
      most cases like this is unnecessary and a waste of resources,
      even using Websockets
- [ ] Add more features, specially to handle users ...


Usage
-----

Launch the application with:

    $ mvn spring-boot:run

Or use `./mvnw` instead of `mvn` (`mvnw.cmd` for Window platforms).

Then access the application with http://localhost:8080/, or access
to the API with http://localhost:8080/api/

One of the user to access the app with privileged access is `frodo@local`,
and the password `admin`. Check the initial dataset in
the [DatabaseLoader.java](src/main/java/ar/com/mrdev/app/user/DatabaseLoader.java)
file.

If you access the API through the HAL browser, it will required to sign-in
like with the dash panel using a web page provided by Spring Security,
but if you are going to consume the API with a 3rd party tool
you will need to authenticate using
[HTTP Basic Authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication),
eg. with `curl` the `Authorization: Basic ...` header can be generated using
the `-u user:pass` argument:

    $ curl -u gf@local:admin http://localhost:8080/api/users


#### Hot reloading

To edit Javascript or CSS resources and see the changes in the
browser without the need to re-launch the application, execute within
a command line:

    $ target/node/npm run watch

And leave it running.

About
-----

**Source code**: https://github.com/mrsarm/spring-react-crud

**Authors**:
* Mariano Ruiz <mrsarm@gmail.com>

**Original Authors**:
* Greg Turnquist (Pivotal)
* Pivotal committers and other contributors

2015-2019  |  Apache-2.0

Commit message:

Added "Requirements" section to the README

README.md, after:

React.js and Spring Data REST - CRUD
====================================

CRUD application with security enabled: a PoC with
ReactJS in the frontend and Spring Data REST in the backend.

> ⚠️ **_NOTE:_**  Work in Progress, there is nothing useful yet.

Based in the source code here: https://github.com/spring-guides/tut-react-and-spring-data-rest

Guide: https://spring.io/guides/tutorials/react-and-spring-data-rest

The **goal** is to learn better how to use React, and complete the guide but
improving the original code with the following changes and features:

- [ ] Make it more appealing, using Bootstrap / HTML5, using React components
      from a 3ty party library, maybe [reactstrap](https://reactstrap.github.io/).
- [X] The original application makes a lot of unnecessary requests to only show
      the paginated results (2 initial requests + 1 request * number of items
      in the page), that should be narrowed to just one request.
- [X] Replace the depreacted library [rest.js](https://github.com/cujojs/rest) that
      also does not support standard promises by a modern HTTP client:
      [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios)
- [X] Add a REST browser for development purpose: HAL Browser
- [X] The entity `Employee` in the original guide is the `User` entity here,
      that was merged with the `Manager` entity
- [ ] Add better validations and errors handling
- [X] Remove Websockets used to update the data in the frontend in "real time",
      most cases like this is unnecessary and a waste of resources,
      even using Websockets
- [ ] Add more features, specially to handle users ...


Requirements
------------

- **JDK 8+**
- **Maven 3+**, or you can use the script `./mvnw` instead that it will install
  Maven 3.6 in the user space automatically if the required version isn't there

To build the web assets the project uses **Node.js**, **Webpack**, ...
but all of them are installed and triggered by Maven automatically
in the user space.


Usage
-----

Launch the application with:

    $ mvn spring-boot:run

Or use `./mvnw` instead of `mvn` (`mvnw.cmd` for Window platforms).

Then access the application with http://localhost:8080/, or access
to the API with http://localhost:8080/api/

One of the user to access the app with privileged access is `frodo@local`,
and the password `admin`. Check the initial dataset in
the [DatabaseLoader.java](src/main/java/ar/com/mrdev/app/user/DatabaseLoader.java)
file.

If you access the API through the HAL browser, it will required to sign-in
like with the dash panel using a web page provided by Spring Security,
but if you are going to consume the API with a 3rd party tool
you will need to authenticate using
[HTTP Basic Authentication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication),
eg. with `curl` the `Authorization: Basic ...` header can be generated using
the `-u user:pass` argument:

    $ curl -u gf@local:admin http://localhost:8080/api/users


#### Hot reloading

To edit Javascript or CSS resources and see the changes in the
browser without the need to re-launch the application, execute within
a command line:

    $ target/node/npm run watch

And leave it running.

About
-----

**Source code**: https://github.com/mrsarm/spring-react-crud

**Authors**:
* Mariano Ruiz <mrsarm@gmail.com>

**Original Authors**:
* Greg Turnquist (Pivotal)
* Pivotal committers and other contributors

2015-2019  |  Apache-2.0
